STOCK TRADING PLATFORM:

A simple java-based stock trading simulator that allows users to view market prices, buy and sell stocks, and track portfolio performance.
The project demonstrates object-oriented programming (oop) concepts, including class design, encapsulation, and method interaction.

OVERVIEW:

This project simulates a basic stock trading environment where users can:

-view available stocks and their market prices
-buy and sell shares
-view their portfolio and remaining balance
-update stock prices periodically to simulate market changes

the system is designed for console interaction and can be extended to include gui or database features.

FEATURES:

-Market simulation with random price fluctuations
-user portfolio tracking (balance, holdings, and transactions)
-buy and sell operations with validation checks
-oop-based modular design for easy scalability
-clear, menu-driven console interface

TECHNOLOGIES USED:

Programming language: java
Development environment: any ide or terminal supporting java
Libraries: core java (no external dependencies)

CLASS STRUCTURE:

-stock
represents a single stock with name, symbol, and price attributes.
includes functionality to simulate price updates.

-user
manages user details such as balance and portfolio holdings.
handles buying and selling of stocks with proper balance and quantity checks.

-stockmarket
maintains a list of available stocks and provides methods for displaying and updating stock prices.

-main
serves as the entry point for the application and manages the console-based user interface.

SAMPLE WORKFLOW:
The program starts by initializing a few sample stocks.
The user is prompted with a menu to choose actions such as viewing market data, buying/selling stocks, or checking the portfolio.
Prices can be updated periodically to simulate live market conditions.
The session continues until the user chooses to exit.

HOW TO RUN:

save all .java files (Main.java, User.java, Stock.java, StockMarket.java) in one folder.
open a terminal in that directory.
compile the source files:
javac .java

RUN THE PROGRAM:

java Main

FUTURE ENHANCEMENTS:

add file i/o or database integration to save portfolio data
create a gui version using java swing or javafx
implement profit/loss tracking and transaction history
integrate real-time api data for live market simulation

CONCLUSION:

The stock trading platform provides a foundational example of how object-oriented programming can be applied to simulate real-world systems. 
It demonstrates clean class design, logical data flow, and interaction between multiple entities in a simple and understandable way.
